Name (signs limit 280); 
Description
Symptoms
Prevention Tips 

Allergies
Ragweed and mold spores are the biggest allergy triggers in the fall. Although, dust mites are common during the humid summer months, they can get stirred into the air the first time you turn on your heat in the fall.
Watery and itchy eyes, Runny or stuffy nose, Itchy sinuses or throat, Sneezing, Postnasal drainage, Temporary loss of smell, Snoring, Headache, Sore throat, Ear congestion, Fatigue, Coughing
Keep your home and car windows closed. Search online to check the daily pollen counts in your area. Search online to check the air quality of your city before spending time outside. Take a shower after spending time outside.

Cold
Common cold can affect anyone at any time, but fall is the peak time. It is a communicable illness and can last from a few days to a few weeks.
Low-grade fever, Runny nose, Body aches or headache, Cough, Sneezing, Congestion, Sore throat
Wash your hands frequently throughout the day, and especially, after using the restroom and before eating. Keep your stress levels low, eat a balanced diet, and sleep well. Cover your nose and mouth when you sneeze or cough. Avoid spending time in crowded places.

Flu
The flu viruses are common in the autumn season. If left untreated, the illness can become severe and turn into bronchitis or pneumonia.
Diarrhea, Sudden, excessive fatigue, Nausea and vomiting, Body aches, Wheezing and congestion, Chills, Headache, Fever, Persistent cough, Sore throat, Chest tightness
Wash your hands thoroughly and frequently. Do not spend time in crowded places. Cover your nose and mouth when sneezing or coughing. Eat a healthy diet. Get plenty of rest. Lower your stress levels.

Sore Throat
You may feel scratchiness or pain in your throat during the cooler weather, which results in sore throat. Sore throat is also a symptom of allergies, common cold, and the flu.
Hoarse voice, Trouble swallowing, Swollen glands in the neck, Loss of appetite, Chills, Itchy and watery eyes, Muscle and body aches, Nasal congestion
Avoid crowded places. Wash your hands often. Cover your mouth. Don’t share drinks, foods, or utensils with others, especially if they are sick.

Norovirus
Norovirus causes stomach inflammation. It is extremely contagious and remains in full swing from fall through winter. It can be transmitted from person to person, or via contaminated foods, especially seafood.
Diarrhea, Feeling of sickness, Abdominal pain or cramps, Muscle pain, Nausea and vomiting
Wash your hands thoroughly after using the toilet and before eating or preparing foods. Don’t prepare foods or care for others when you are sick. Clean your restrooms and toilets with disinfectants.

Ear Infections
Ear infections are caused by an inflammation or virus in the middle ear and are more likely to occur in the fall than other seasons. They can also result from other illnesses such as allergies, cold, and the flu. Ear infections are more common in children.
Ear pain or earache, Loss of hearing in the affected ear, Vomiting, Diarrhea, Fullness in the ear, Tenderness to the touch, Dizziness, Feeling sick
Stay in smoke-free environments and make sure no one smokes in your home. Avoid putting cotton swabs into the ear. Teach your child how to wash their hands thoroughly and other hygienic practices that prevent illnesses.

Acute Bronchitis
Acute bronchitis is the inflammation of the bronchial tubes that carry air into the lungs. It is usually caused by a virus and often occurs after a common cold, sore throat, or the flu. The viruses or bacteria that cause acute bronchitis to flourish in the cold weather.
Chest tightness or congestion, Wheezing, Shortness of breath, Body aches, Cough that develops green, clear, or yellow mucus, Chills, Sore throat
Quit smoking. Stay away from things that cause irritations to your throat and lungs such as pets, fumes, vapors, or dust. Regularly disinfect doorknobs, countertops, and other frequently touched surfaces.

Arthritis
Arthritis is the inflammation of joints that worsens with age. Arthritis is a year-round condition but people with arthritis report that cool and damp weather flare up their symptoms.
Joint pain, Fatigue, Swelling in joints, Stiffness in joints, Tenderness in joints
Eat a healthy diet that includes fruits, vegetables, fish, and nuts. Control your body weight. Exercise regularly to keep your joints flexible.

Sinusitis
Sinusitis is caused by the inflammation of the tissue that lines the sinuses, the cavities around the nasal passage. It is more common in the cold weather. The most common causes of sinusitis, cold, and flu, are already prevalent at this time of the year.
Tenderness under the eyes or at the bridge of the nose, Postnasal drip, Teeth pain, Discolored nasal discharge, Nasal congestion, Fever
Keep nasal secretions thin by drinking plenty of fluids. Keep your nose moist with saline sprays. Manage your allergies. Avoid air travel.

Asthma
Cold and damp weather increases the risk of asthma attacks by drying up the airways. Common cold and flu, which are a common case during the cold weather, are the other triggers that cause asthma flare-ups during the fall.
Wheezing, Chest pain or tightness, Coughing, Shortness of breath, Difficulty in speaking and sleeping
Stay away from asthma triggers. Quit smoking and stay in smoke-free environments. Monitor your breathing and use quick-relief inhalers if you have difficulty breathing.

Seasonal Affective Disorder
Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a mood disorder that affects many people throughout fall and winter. SAD is a serious disorder that can lead to clinical depression. There is no definitive theory or proof about what actually causes SAD.
Sadness, Fatigue, Weight gain, Trouble concentrating, Increased desire to be alone, Feeling of weakness, Greater need for sleep
Self-care. Physical exercise. Vitamin D dietary supplements.

Depression
Depression is a common and serious medical illness that negatively affects how you feel, the way you think and how you act. Fortunately, it is also treatable. It can lead to a variety of emotional, physical problems and can decrease your ability to function at work and at home.
Feeling sad, Thoughts of death or suicide, Loss of interest or pleasure in activities once enjoyed, Changes in appetite, Trouble sleeping or sleeping too much, Loss of energy or increased fatigue, Feeling worthless or guilty, Difficulty thinking, concentrating, making decisions
Seek support. Stay on track with your own life. Set boundaries. Encourage activity. Speak up for yourself. Let somebody help you.

Covid
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus. Most people infected with the COVID-19 virus will experience mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without requiring special treatment.
All informactions you wil find in our blog "Health Upgrade"
This is a serious case and it is best to contact your doctor or the emergency services.
